docs/usage.rst, before:

=====
Usage
=====

Install the package with ``pip``:

.. code:: bash
    
    pip install prettyprinter

Then, instead of

.. code:: python

    from pprint import pprint

do

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import cpprint

for colored output. For colorless output, remove the ``c`` prefix from the function name:

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import pprint

Usage in Python code and default shell
--------------------------------------

Call :func:`~prettyprinter.cpprint` for colored output or :func:`~prettyprinter.pprint` for uncolored output, just like ``pprint.pprint``:

.. code:: python

    >>> from prettyprinter import cpprint
    >>> cpprint({'a': 1, 'b': 2})
    # ...colored output

Unfortunately, it's not possible to override the representation printer for values evaluated in the default Python shell. I recommend using IPython.

Usage with IPython
------------------

You can use prettyprinter with IPython so that values in the REPL will be printed with ``prettyprinter`` using syntax highlighting. You need to call ``prettyprinter`` initialization functions at the start of an IPython session, which IPython facilitates with `profile startup files`_. To initialize prettyprinter in your default profile, add and edit a new startup file with the following commands:

.. code:: bash
    
    touch "`ipython locate profile default`/startup/init_prettyprinter.py"
    nano "`ipython locate profile default`/startup/init_prettyprinter.py"


The code in this file will be run upon entering the shell. Add these lines and comment out any extra packages you don't need:

.. code:: python

    # Specify syntax higlighting theme in IPython;
    # will be picked up by prettyprinter.
    from pygments import styles

    ipy = get_ipython()
    ipy.colors = 'linux'
    ipy.highlighting_style = styles.get_style_by_name('monokai')

    import prettyprinter

    prettyprinter.install_extras(
        # Comment out any packages you are not using.
        include=[
            'ipython',
            'attrs',
            'django',
        ],
        warn_on_error=True
    )


Pretty printing your own types
------------------------------

Given a custom class:

.. code:: python

    class MyClass(object):
        def __init__(self, one, two):
            self.one = one
            self.two = two


You can register a pretty printer:

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import register_pretty, pretty_call

    @register_pretty(MyClass)
    def pretty_myclass(value, ctx):
        return pretty_call(
            ctx,
            MyClass,
            one=value.one,
            two=value.two
        )


To get an output like this with simple data:

.. code:: python
    
    >>> prettyprinter.pprint(MyClass(1, 2))
    MyClass(one=1, two=2)

The real utility is in how nested data pretty printing is handled for you, and how the function call is broken to multiple lines for easier legibility:

.. code:: python
    
    >>> prettyprinter.pprint(MyClass({'abc': 1, 'defg': 2, 'hijk': 3}, [1, 2]))
    MyClass(
        one={
            'abc': 1,
            'defg': 2,
            'hijk': 3
        },
        two=[1, 2]
    )

:func:`@register_pretty <prettyprinter.register_pretty>` is a decorator that takes the type to register. Internally, :class:`functools.singledispatch` is used to handle dispatch to the correct pretty printer. This means that any subclasses will also use the same printer.

The decorated function must accept exactly two positional arguments:

- ``value`` to pretty print, and
- ``ctx``, a context value.

In most cases, you don't need need to do anything with the context, except pass it along in nested calls. It can be used to affect rendering of nested data.

The function must return a :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc`, which is either an instance of :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc` or a :class:`str`. :func:`~prettyprinter.pretty_call` returns a :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc` that represents a function call. Given an arbitrary context ``ctx``

.. code:: python

    pretty_call(ctx, round, 1.5)

Will be printed out as

.. code:: python

    round(1.5)

with syntax highlighting.


.. _`profile startup files`: http://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config/intro.html#profiles
.. _colorful: https://github.com/timofurrer/colorful
.. _pygments: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Pygments

Commit message:

Make easier to use on light backgrounds, improve docs

docs/usage.rst, after:

=====
Usage
=====

Install the package with ``pip``:

.. code:: bash
    
    pip install prettyprinter

Then, instead of

.. code:: python

    from pprint import pprint

do

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import cpprint

for colored output. For colorless output, remove the ``c`` prefix from the function name:

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import pprint

Usage in Python code and default shell
--------------------------------------

Call :func:`~prettyprinter.cpprint` for colored output or :func:`~prettyprinter.pprint` for uncolored output, just like ``pprint.pprint``:

.. code:: python

    >>> from prettyprinter import cpprint
    >>> cpprint({'a': 1, 'b': 2})
    # ...colored output

Unfortunately, it's not possible to override the representation printer for values evaluated in the default Python shell. I recommend using IPython.

The default style is meant for a dark background. If you're on a light background, or want to set your own theme, you may do so with :func:`~prettyprinter.set_default_style`

.. code:: python
    
    >>> from prettyprinter import set_default_style
    >>> set_default_style('light')

Possible values are ``'light'``, ``'dark'``, and any subclass of ``pygments.styles.Style``.

Usage with IPython
------------------

You can use prettyprinter with IPython so that values in the REPL will be printed with ``prettyprinter`` using syntax highlighting. You need to call ``prettyprinter`` initialization functions at the start of an IPython session, which IPython facilitates with `profile startup files`_. To initialize prettyprinter in your default profile, add and edit a new startup file with the following commands:

.. code:: bash
    
    touch "`ipython locate profile default`/startup/init_prettyprinter.py"
    nano "`ipython locate profile default`/startup/init_prettyprinter.py"


The code in this file will be run upon entering the shell. Add these lines and comment out any extra packages you don't need:

.. code:: python

    # Specify syntax higlighting theme in IPython;
    # will be picked up by prettyprinter.
    from pygments import styles

    # For light terminal backgrounds.
    from prettyprinter.color import GitHubLightStyle
    ipy = get_ipython()
    ipy.colors = 'LightBG'
    ipy.highlighting_style = GitHubLightStyle

    # For dark terminal background.
    ipy = get_ipython()
    ipy.colors = 'linux'
    ipy.highlighting_style = styles.get_style_by_name('monokai')

    import prettyprinter

    prettyprinter.install_extras(
        # Comment out any packages you are not using.
        include=[
            'ipython',
            'attrs',
            'django',
        ],
        warn_on_error=True
    )


Pretty printing your own types
------------------------------

Given a custom class:

.. code:: python

    class MyClass(object):
        def __init__(self, one, two):
            self.one = one
            self.two = two


You can register a pretty printer:

.. code:: python

    from prettyprinter import register_pretty, pretty_call

    @register_pretty(MyClass)
    def pretty_myclass(value, ctx):
        return pretty_call(
            ctx,
            MyClass,
            one=value.one,
            two=value.two
        )


To get an output like this with simple data:

.. code:: python
    
    >>> prettyprinter.pprint(MyClass(1, 2))
    MyClass(one=1, two=2)

The real utility is in how nested data pretty printing is handled for you, and how the function call is broken to multiple lines for easier legibility:

.. code:: python
    
    >>> prettyprinter.pprint(MyClass({'abc': 1, 'defg': 2, 'hijk': 3}, [1, 2]))
    MyClass(
        one={
            'abc': 1,
            'defg': 2,
            'hijk': 3
        },
        two=[1, 2]
    )

:func:`@register_pretty <prettyprinter.register_pretty>` is a decorator that takes the type to register. Internally, :class:`functools.singledispatch` is used to handle dispatch to the correct pretty printer. This means that any subclasses will also use the same printer.

The decorated function must accept exactly two positional arguments:

- ``value`` to pretty print, and
- ``ctx``, a context value.

In most cases, you don't need need to do anything with the context, except pass it along in nested calls. It can be used to affect rendering of nested data.

The function must return a :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc`, which is either an instance of :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc` or a :class:`str`. :func:`~prettyprinter.pretty_call` returns a :class:`~prettyprinter.doc.Doc` that represents a function call. Given an arbitrary context ``ctx``

.. code:: python

    pretty_call(ctx, round, 1.5)

Will be printed out as

.. code:: python

    round(1.5)

with syntax highlighting.


.. _`profile startup files`: http://ipython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config/intro.html#profiles
.. _colorful: https://github.com/timofurrer/colorful
.. _pygments: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Pygments
